feat(docs): Add Roadmap (#978)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/50-roadmap.md

---
title: Roadmap
Description: Kargo Roadmap
---

# Roadmap

> Kargo does not currently have a regular release cadance. The plan is to do a few releases, and based on the resluts, create a more formal release cadance.

Reviewer: typo: resluts

Reviewer 2: also, typo: cadance
```suggestion
Kargo does not currently have a regular release cadence. The plan is to do a few releases, and based on the results, create a more formal release cadence.
```

> Kargo does not currently have a regular release cadence. The plan is to do a few releases, and based on the results, create a more formal release cadence.

Reviewer 3: This one section reads awkwardly to me. Could we consider this instead?

```suggestion
Over a series of releases, Kargo's maintainers intend to establish and settle into a predictable, but yet to be determined release cadence.
```

:::caution

> This roadmap is subject to change at any time, for the most up to date information, please see the [GitHub Project](<link goes here>)

Author: @kencochrane Will put the link to the milestones here.

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/akuity/kargo/milestones

:::

> # v0.2.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## v0.2.0
```

> | Name | Type | Description |

Author: Not sure what to put in the column. I used "Type" for now

| ---- | ---- | ----------- |

> | `Freight/Warehouse CRD` | feature | Freight will change from being a property of a `Stage`, to being it's own CRD. A collection of promotable `Freight` will be known as a `Warehouse`. |

Reviewer 3: A Warehouse is not a collection of Freight. It is a _source_ of Freight.

> | `Freight/Warehouse CRD` | feature | Freight will change from being a property of a `Stage`, to being it's own CRD. The source of where promotable `Freight` comes from will be known as a `Warehouse`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Freight/Warehouse CRD` | feature | Freight will change from being a property of a `Stage`, to being its own CRD. The source of where promotable `Freight` comes from will be known as a `Warehouse`. |
```

> | `Long Lived Promotions` | feature | Support for Pull Requset based promotion, which is indefinite. This will allow the promotion to last as long as the PR is open. |

Reviewer 4: Instead of "Long Lived Promotions", GitHub PR-based promotion is the manifestation of a long-lived promotion that folks will understand better.

> | `GitHub PR-based Promotion` | feature | Support for Pull Requset based promotion, which is indefinite. This will allow the promotion to last as long as the PR is open. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `GitHub PR-based Promotion` | feature | Support for pull request based promotions, which do not complete until the underlying PR is closed. |
```

> | `Kargo Render` | breaking change | `Bookkeeper` to be retooled to be the Kargo specific way to do rendered manifests. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `Kargo Render` | breaking change | `Bookkeeper` to be rebranded as `kargo-render`, a Kargo sub-component for rendering manifests. |
```

> | `Kargo Render` | breaking change | `Bookkeeper` to be rebranded as `kargo-render`, a Kargo sub-component for rendering manifests. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Kargo Render | breaking change | Bookkeeper to be rebranded as Kargo Render -- a Kargo child project for rendering manifests. |
```

> # v0.3.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## v0.3.0
```

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |

> | `Analysis` | feature | Run analysis against a metrics provider to determite application health. This will allow assessing Promotion success based on more than just Argo CD Application state. |

Reviewer 4: Ability to run Analysis for the purposes of Freight qualification. This enables users to define additional quality gates (in addition to Argo CD Health) to allow/disallow promotion.

> | `Analysis` | feature | Ability to run Analysis for the purposes of Freight qualification. This enables users to define additional quality gates (in addition to Argo CD Health) to allow/disallow promotion. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Analysis` | feature | Ability to execute user-defined analyses to qualify or disqualify Freight for further promotion. |
```

> | `Kargo RBAC` | feature | Map SSO user identities to Kubernetes ServiceAccounts. Predefined ServiceAccount/Role/RoleBinding per project based on persona. In this version, it'll mostly be backend work. |

Reviewer 4: Remove: `In this version, it'll mostly be backend work.`

Reviewer 3: Agree that sounds clunky, but weren't we splitting this feature up? SSO/RBAC mapping in v0.3.0 and more project management UI features in v0.4.0?

> | `Kargo RBAC` | feature | Map SSO user identities to Kubernetes ServiceAccounts. Predefined ServiceAccount/Role/RoleBinding per project based on persona. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Improved RBAC | feature | Map SSO user identities to Kubernetes ServiceAccounts. Predefined ServiceAccount/Role/RoleBinding per project based on persona. |
```

> | `Freight Production Rules/Filters` | feature | Optionally set up tag-based Git repository subscriptions. Additional options to produce new Freight only under certain conditions. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Freight Production Rules/Filters` | feature | Git repository subscriptions options to constrain conditions under which new Freight is produced. |
```

> # v0.4.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## v0.4.0
```

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |

> | `Project management` | feature | Introduce Project CRD to simplify onboarding and project lifecycle management. Support aggregate information at the project status level.. Additional `PromotionPolicy` options. Credential management via CLI and UI. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Project management` | feature | Introduce Project CRD to simplify onboarding and project lifecycle management. Support aggregate information at the project status level. Additional `PromotionPolicy` options. Credential management via CLI and UI. |
```

> # v0.5.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## v0.5.0
```

> | `Project management` | feature | User/group/permissions management via UI and CL. Project CRD + reconciler will relieve API server of its most abusable permissions; reducing the risk profile. Additional `PromotionPolicy` options. Credential management via CLI and UI. |

Reviewer 4: ~Project CRD + reconciler will relieve API server of its most abusable permissions; reducing the risk profile~

Introduce Project CRD to simplify onboarding and project lifecycle management. Support aggregate information at the project status level.

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |

> | `Promotion Extensibility` | feature | User defined promotion mechanisms. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Promotion Extensibility` | feature | User-defined promotion mechanisms. |
```

> # v0.6.0 .. v0.n.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## v0.6.0 .. v0.n.0
```

> # v0.6.0 - v1.0.0

Reviewer 3: Nit: This looks like it will be easily misinterpreted as an intent to follow v0.6.0 with v1.0.0, when the reality is this section is "other stuff we're planning."

It's possible that misinterpretation could be discouraged like so:

```suggestion
# v0.6.0 .. v0.n.0
```

| Name | Type | Description |
| ---- | ---- | ----------- |

> | `Freight Enrichment` | feature | Include metadata about freight to help users understand what they’re looking at and decide what they promote. This data will be exposed to the UI and CLI tools. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Freight Enrichment` | feature | Enhance Freight metadata for improved insight into Freight contents and the expected result of promoting a piece of Freight to a given environment. This data will be exposed to the UI and CLI tools. |
```

> | `Improved microservice support` | feature | Filters on Freightlines (for example by `Warehouse`). Add the ability to merge parallel Freightlines at a control flow `Stage` |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Improved Microservice Support | feature | Filters for Freightlines (for example, filter by Warehouse). Add the ability to merge parallel Freightlines at a control flow Stages. |
```

> | `kargo init` | feature | Add a `kargo init` subcommand. This subcommand will: Auto-generate namespace, stages, and git repo layout |

Reviewer 3: I'm worried this particular line item is too detailed. I think we all agree that there's a need for streamlining new project/pipeline setup, but I'm not sure we have a clear picture of what that looks like yet.

```suggestion
| `kargo init` | feature | Addition of an `init` sub-command to the Kargo CLI for streamlining project / pipeline creation. |
```

> | `Stand-alone image writeback` | feature | Write back image changes without having to subscribe to an image repository. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Standalone Image Writeback` | feature | Write back image changes without having to subscribe to an image repository. |
```

Also... I'm not clear on what this means...

> | `PromotionPolicy improvements` | feature | Add the ability to "freeze" deployments (bascially locks down a `Stage` from being promoted into). |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| PromotionPolicy Improvements | feature | Add the ability to "freeze" Stages to prevent promotions. |
```

> # Criteria for 1.0.0 Release

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Criteria for 1.0.0 Release
```

> The criteria for a stable v1.0.0 release will be considered when we feel confident in API stability (no breaking changes) and that there are no show-stopping/critial bugs. We will also be looking for a community of users who are successfully using Kargo in production.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Maintainers will consider cutting a stable v1.0.0 release once:

* Confident in API stability. (No further breaking changes anticipated.)
* No critical, "show-stopping" bugs remaining in the backlog.
* Observing evidence of successful community adoption (of beta releases) in production environments
```
